===topic_name:Text of Presentation
===from:Jim Colbert
===email:jtcolber@iastate.edu
===institution:Iowsa State University
===date:Fri Mar 24 15:23:38 2000
===more:<pre>Using Technology to Increase Interaction with Students
Jim Colbert
Department of Botany
March 30, 2000
My Background
  Native Iowan, ISU graduate
  Graduate work at University of Wisconsin
  Teaching large lecture sections of introductory biology and botany for 15 years
(continued)
 I’m trained as a biologist not an educator
 Don’t consider myself to be a “computer person” 
  This workshop is not really about HOW to use web-based technology, but about WHY you might want to……..
Potential Problems with Large Classes
  Students do not intellectually “engage” with the subject - too easy to just “sit there” (or read the “Daily”)
  Students feel too intimidated to ask questions
  Students feel no “ownership” of the course goals or topics
(continued)
  Students feel that the instructor is unwilling, or unable, to interact “one-on-one” with them
  Students fail to interact with students, other than those they know from settings outside of class
ClassNet
  A web-based strategy that can be used to increase interaction between students and instructors
  http://classnet.cc.iastate.edu/          (from ISU Faculty & Staff page)
  There are other programs - e.g., WebCT
Uses of the Web that aren’t specifically intended to increase interaction
  Posting of student scores on assignments and exams
  Posting answer keys to exams
  Assignments involving posting links to pictures of, or research on, various types of organisms
  Posting short explanations of challenging concepts
Some Web-based Activities that are intended to increase instructor/student and student/student interactions
  Posting questions related to lecture material
  Posting in-class group discussion summaries and individual responses

(continued)
  Writing and posting practice exam questions
  On-line “help” sessions in the “chat room”
Questions About Lecture Material
  Bribe them - I use “extra credit” (< 2% of the total points)
  Provides an opportunity to see what the students are confused about and what they’re interested in (use in lecture)
  Allows the students to *use* the terminology of the discipline
Question Instructions
   		This is where you should post your questions for extra credit. Questions posted in the "Extra Credit Questions" Discussion Topic will make the poster eligible to receive extra credit. I will answer, insofar as possible, all questions posted. Each POST will be regarded as ONE question (even if the question has several "parts"). Assuming that the posted question is relevant to the course material in this class, each post will result in 1 (one) point being added to the student's score. You may ask as many  questions as you wish, but a maximum of 4 (four) extra credit points will be added to your score in this class. Some of the posted questions will be selected for use in class. If you don't wish your name to be used in lecture in association with your question, please state that in your post. To receive credit, questions must be posted before Monday April 24 at 11:59 PM. 
What you might get…..
  Well over 200 questions from a class of ~ 180
  Questions at all times of the day (and night)
  Some very good and some not so good questions
  Some interaction between students
Some Examples
Date posted: Sun Feb 20 14:39:01 2000 
Subject: Epidermis 
Message:  You said the epidermis protects the plant form pathogens physical damage and water loss. I    understand how it protects from pathogens and damage, but how exactly does it help with water loss? 
Reply: 
Subject: response 
Reply Posted by: Jim Colbert 
Date Posted: Tue Feb 22 9:15:43 2000 
Message:  Because the cells of the epidermis synthesize and secrete the waxy cuticle, which minimizes loss of water from the plant body. 

(continued)
Date posted: Tue Feb 22 14:29:40 2000 
Subject: Protoxylem and metaxylem 
Message:  I was wondering why two different types of xylem are needed - I realize they are basically the same tissue developing at different times,  but how exactly is this beneficial to the plant to have protoxylem and metaxylem? 

Reply: 
Subject: i think this might be why 
Reply Posted by:  A Student 
Date Posted: Wed Feb 23 12:21:25 2000 
Message:  To me it seems to make sense that some would develop early and some later because the plant is smalled at first and requires less of the support and movement of water that the xylem provides but as the plant increases in size it would require more of these tissues to support the plant and move materials throughout it. That is what seems logical. 
(continued)
Date posted: Fri Jan 28 0:53:34 2000 
Subject: Might Oh Con Dria? 
Message:   I was curious about the whole genetics of mitochondria. The current theory of mitochondria is that they were incorporated into cells as a part of  endosymbiosis. So why are there genes that code for the proteins in mitochondria in the genome of the cell? How did these nucleotides make  their way into there? In a newly fertilized cell, where do the mitochondria come from? Do they come from the mother? The father? Are they  produced from the genome through normal protein synthesis? Is there a God? What is the meaning of life? Is the cute girl in my biology class the  one? I need answers!!! 
Instructions
 Click on ClassNet;  Click on “Main Menu”
  Select Bio 202 Colbert and click on “login”
  Select “College, Josephine” and enter the password: wakonse
  Click on “Menu”
(continued) 
  Click on “Discuss”
  Click on the new window
  Click on “Extra Credit Questions”
  Click on any questions or responses that you wish to view
Small Group Discussions
  Clearly a useful method to encourage students to “engage” with the subject
  Especially useful for “controversial” topics
  BUT, in a large class, quite time-consuming for all groups to share their ideas
A web-based solution
  Have the students do a small group discussion in class
  Assign points for posting a summary of their discussion on the web
  Encourages student/student interaction
How to get students to read other students ideas
  Provide more points for individually responding to group summaries
  Topics I’ve used:  evolution and creation, reintroduction of wolves, transgenic crops, xenotransplantation
Discussion Instructions
  This is where you should post your group summaries and individual responses for the in-class discussion on Bt-corn. To receive full credit, your post must include a summary of your group's discussion and a statement regarding whether your group supports widespread planting of Bt-corn (4 points). In addition, each group must include the URL of a site related to transgenic crops (1 point). The group post must be submitted by 11:59 PM Sunday March 26. 

  Each individual may receive up to 2 points of extra credit by responding to group posts (one point per response). You may respond to as many groups as you wish, but a maximum of 2 extra credit points will be awarded. Extra credit responses must be posted before 11:59 PM Sunday April 2 
Instructions
  Click on “View Topics”
  Click on “Transgenic Crops”
  Click on any group summary or individual response
Practice Exam Questions
  My perspective is that a person has to have more knowledge of a subject to ask a good question, than to give an answer (even a correct answer)
  Writing “exam” questions provides students with another opportunity to use discipline terminology
(continued)
  I also believe that constructing questions is a valuable method of studying material
  This approach “encourages” students to practice developing questions
  Also can lead to “predicting” what the instructor might ask 
Practice Exam Instructions
   This where you should post your multiple choice questions. These questions should have FIVE possible answers ("all of the above", "none of the above", etc. are not acceptable). The expectation is that the questions you post will be written by YOU - not copied from some other source. You will receive 1 point per question, up to a maximum of 5 points. To be eligible for credit the questions must be posted by 11:59 PM on December 10. We will, as promptly as possible, answer the questions you post. 
Examples
Date posted: Sat Oct 30 13:56:59 1999 
Subject: Epiphytes 
Message:  Epiphytes are:
a.  A division of seedless vascular plants.
b.  A genus of ferns.
c.  Spore-bearing structures found under the leaves of  ferns.
d.  Plants that grow on other organisms but are not parasites.
e.  A division of seedless non-vascular plants

Reply: 
Subject: response 
Reply Posted by: Jim Colbert 
Date Posted: Mon Nov 1 10:04:51 1999 
Message:
d. BUT - the "other organisms" must be plants (epi phyte = "on" "plants") 
(continued)
Date posted: Tue Oct 26 23:49:22 1999 
Subject: Trends in Plants 
Message:  An important trend in plant evolution is:
A) decrease in lignin in the cell wall
B) production of resistant zygospores
C) increased reliance on water for fertilization
D) decrease in prominence of the gametophyte
E) decrease in prominence of the sporophyte

Reply: 
Subject: response 
Reply Posted by: Jim Colbert 
Date Posted: Wed Oct 27 8:34:20 1999 
Message:
D) 

Instructions
  Click on “Main Menu”
  Click on “Join a ClassNet Class”
  Select the class “Colbert Workshop3-30”
  Enter your name, password, and e-mail - Click on “Enroll”
(continued)
  Select Colbert Workshop3-30 and click on “login”
  Select YOUR name and Enter YOUR password
  Click on Menu
Time to POST!!
  Click on “Discuss” and Click on the other window
  Click on the topic: “Questions, Comments, or Concerns about web-based interactions with students in large classes”
(continued)
  Post something related to the topic
  Respond to others’ posts using the “reply” button
  Click on “Reload” frequently to see the newest posts
The “Chat” Room
  I have not used this feature as much
  I thought that students might use the chat room amongst themselves - but that has not proven to be very common
(continued)
  I make use of the chat room to hold on-line pre-exam “help sessions”
  These are question and answer only - no review material is presented
Instructions
  Click on the Student Menu window
  Click on the “Chat” button
  Chat!
What I THINK Might be Benefits to Employing Web-based Interaction
  The opportunity to “cogitate” about developing a question, rather than having to think of a “good” question quickly
  The opportunity to ask a question of your instructor any time of the day or night

  The opportunity to see what OTHER students in the class are wondering about/confused by
  The opportunity to read (more than once, if desired) the instructor’s answers to questions
  The feeling that questions you ask may have an impact on what topics are addressed in the class

  The opportunity to know what other groups thought about a topic during an in-class discussion
  The opportunity to respond to other groups with regard to the summary of their discussion

 The opportunity to practice using discipline terminology by the construction and posting of “practice” exam questions
  The opportunity to use the questions posted by other students as a study aid while preparing for exams 
</pre>
=========yorg=========
