===topic_name:Diagnostic RE-Revision   Please look this over and give me tips if you have time Thanks!
===from:Erin Enger
===email:eenger@iastate.edu
===date:Wed Oct 15 14:14:55 2003
===more:Erin Enger
Iraj Omidvar
English 105 Section 33
Diagnostic Essay Revision
Tuesday, September 16, 2003

I love words.  The ability for one to express oneself in any fashion imaginable is possible with merely a pen and a piece of paper.  My passion for words and love of the English language has actually driven me towards my career dream of becoming an English teacher.  As a teacher, I too will be faced with the dilemma of how a student’s writing should be evaluated.  To me, evaluating a paper is a process in which a student’s writing ability, mechanics, and effort is looked over by someone with more experience and knowledge in that area and after some consideration, the student will be given a letter grade that reflects his or her performance.  Even though the day when I will be grading papers is not going to occur for a while, I have given much thought as to the most fair way to approach this task.
Despite the fact that I personally feel that students are best evaluated by a grading system that assigns a specific letter grade to each student, some people may have dissenting opinions.  For example, in Paul Goodman’s essay, A Proposal to Abolish Grading, he makes the following claim: “I think that the great majority of professors agree that grading hinders teaching and creates a bad spirit, going as far as cheating and plagiarizing” (206).  Goodman also implies in his essay that grading should be eliminated and students should take tests given by the corporations and graduate schools students wish to apply to.  I disagree with his opinion.  Grades are an easy way to see a student’s progress, to see where a student needs work, and an efficient grading system makes it quite easy for one student to compare himself to another.  On a further note, if a student were to seek help from a peer on an assignment, should he or she ask an ‘A’ student or a ‘C’ student?  Without an established grading scale, students have no way of knowing whom they should ask for help.  
English papers, for many students, are very personal projects into which students devotes much time and feeling; I assume that argumentation papers will require many of the same things out of students, although I have yet to attempt a paper of this type.  Because these papers involve feelings about issues that may be controversial, it is quite possible that the tone of the paper may not correspond with the opinions of the person who is evaluating the paper.  However, I believe that an evaluator should remain completely unbiased when grading a paper; a grade should be awarded based on grammar, sentence structure and clarity, creativity, as well as the strength and credibility of the argument.
As I entered this classroom today, I noticed a fairly diverse group of people surrounding me.  If this diversity is easily seen by simply the exterior appearance of the students, I expect that an even larger sense of diverseness will occur in terms of our papers and opinions.  Because of this huge variation in opinions, it would not be possible or just to imply that one argument is more valid then another, as long as all arguments can be supported with creditable sources.  If a student has met the criteria for a ‘B’ paper, a student should receive that grade regardless of how absurd or radical his or her opinion may be.  It is not up to the evaluator to establish a new moral code for the writer.  The evaluator’s primary responsibility is the improvement of the writer.  Throughout the evaluation process, helpful tips and ideas should be offered, as well as constructive criticism on areas where the student could use a little extra work.  Grades should then be awarded to the student based on their overall success or lack of success in the art of argumentation.

=========yorg=========
