===topic_name:Assign2 H p533
===from:H p533
===date:Thu Sep 11 17:01:35 1997
===more:1. H p533 2. 9-10-97 3. 480-78-0246 4. 9-10-97 
<br>
5a. Knowledge is a hierarchy of connections: Source: This idea
was discussed in our lecture last week and is also covered in Pressley1s text. Explanation: The acquisition of knowledge is a
"bottom-up" process. That is, individuals must posses lower level skills, or units of knowledge in order to progress and
develop higher level concepts. 
<br>
5b. Content knowledge versus learning ability in the learning of facts or concepts. Source: This
idea is covered in Kuhara-Kojima and Hatano1s article, and to a lesser extent in the Pressley text. Explanation: Individuals
with a content knowledge in a particular area are able to learn facts relevant to that domain (utilizing either lists or discourse).
But, the transferring of knowledge from that domain to another has no effect. 
<br>
5c. Education revolves around semantic
knowledge. Source: We talked about this in class; and it is discussed in the article by Hattie, et al. The concepts are also
addressed in Pressley. Explanation: Semantic knowledge encompasses things we know (versus episodic knowledge which
are things we remember). For students to transfer knowledge into semantic memory, they need to understand the basis of
how a strategy, or concept, works; as well as the circumstances in which to use that particular strategy / knowledge. 
<br>
6. These are all very valid issues in the development of the curriculum, as well as the pedagogy, for the class I am responsible for
teaching; and that I provide to the others I supervise who teach the course. The course is a freshman level college course; and
is, basically, a "science for non-science majors" laboratory class. I constantly have to struggle with the fact that most of the
students do not possess even a basic level of understanding of the material they are required to process for the course. For
example, in reference to 5a. above, the students do not have the necessary first step mastered that is required for the class -
which is terminology. Their ability to work within the context of the terms utilized in this discipline have to be developed
before I can move on to explain the higher level concepts. Often times, I rely on acronyms and mnemonics to drill the students
in an attempt to make the "basics" part of their semantic memory. Rather like the process of brushing your teeth or getting
dressed in the mornings, the idea is to have these concepts become an ingrained aspect of their general knowledge. What I
gleaned from the reading in regards to 5b., was that students may possess content knowledge in a particular area, but that
does not necessarily mean they can transfer that learning ability to another area. So, prior knowledge about science does not
enable the student to transfer that content to learning the Latin terminology used in the anatomy class, for example. Tying all
these ideas together is difficult; even more so in practice! Increasingly, it becomes the educator1s role to teach problem
solving skills to students, rather than simply imparting bits of information to be regurgitated at some later point in time. This is
particularly true in the areas of math and science. Students need the basic skills, of course, but then they need to be able to
relate what they are learning in a such a manner that they can commit those concepts to their semantic memory. Until they do
this, they can not really understand and thus "think on their feet" about how to approach a given problem. Specifically, the
way in which I try to incorporate these ideas in my lab classes and lectures are by first giving the students at least the minimum
background knowledge they need, such as the terminology. I give them a written list of the terms I feel are most important for
the class that week. I then try to pronounce the words for them; and finally, pronounce them again while giving a definition of
the term. They are then exposed to the terminology a second time in lecture, and a third time in the lab class. Then the
students, hopefully, use the terminology themselves. Often times, I will use an acronym to illustrate a concept (such as IPMAT
for the stages of cell division) and to aid their ability to recall the information later. After I have attempted to meet the basic
knowledge base, I then try to move on to higher level skills. One of my goals in this setting is to have the students relate what
they are learning to "real life." One way I do this is by giving them case studies or homework assignments that ask about
specific diseases, or physiological processes. I encourage them to problem solve and try to stimulate self-discovery learning
with these exercises. I will give them some direction, (such as provide various books for them to use, or interactive computer
program), and then "set them free" to answer predetermined questions about the material and objectives for that week. Again,
what I attempt to do is provide the students with tools and skills to figure out how they are going to approach and solve a
given problem. I want to encourage them to develop their critical-thinking skills. These ideas are still very much "in the
works." I am continually developing and implementing new ideas and tasks in the course to achieve these goals. 

=========yorg=========
